Hey guys welcome back to the course so in this lecture we're going to talk about bit rate we're going
to talk about what you should be looking for with price.
Now it obviously depends on the context of your situation.
But in this case I'm going to give you some guidelines and some things to look for that can at least
guide you towards who's giving you an accurate price and who is not giving you an accurate price.
This will help you vet your group help you whittle down to a shortlist makes the process a lot easier
going forward.
Then you can use the other techniques we talk in other in other lectures to finally narrow it down to
the contractor that you want to work with.
OK.
Let's go to screencast.
All right.
Let's talk about BYD rate.
So I know a lot of people who are brand new to this.
What's the first thing they need to pay attention to is the rate that people are getting.
And a lot of people make their decisions based off of price.
And we've talked about previously when the lecture we called the Goldilocks syndrome that you really
shouldn't make your judgment based off the price alone.
You need to decide who is a good candidate first just from a personality standpoint expertise standpoint
then you need to determine whether or not the price matches up with how well of a fit they are on the
other criteria.
But there are a couple of things that you can use and look for that can be very helpful in determining
what's a good bid rate in general.
I'm not saying what's the best bid right for you but there are some ways that you can sniff out things
that are just wrong.
So the first thing I like to do when I'm trying to think about the rates that are being proposed is
to look for what we call big mismatches what a bid minutes mismatch means is that a lot of times people
will give you an explanation for why something cost a sum a certain amount and then they'll give you
a final estimate and a final estimate does not match what they said.
So that happens.
And what that means is that they're sloppy.
They don't pay attention to details where something else is going on.
It might mean that they have some internal communication issues maybe someone submitted the price differently
than the person who wrote the description.
And those are things that you really really need to sniff out and that's just usually a bad thing it's
going to create a problem down the road because you don't know what price you're signing up for.
You also don't know how well they understand your application if they themselves are confused.
So here's an example.
This smart data enterprises gave us a bid and what you can see down here is they say as per your detail
shared the total estimated hours of the whole application will be approximately 360 hours.
OK.
You know that's great.
I mean they give you a big price.
We want to get separated into sections so that's a negative thing.
But then look at their price right here they say 4000 $680.
OK well you wouldn't assume that that you know is a bad thing.
But then look at their per hour rate so it's $15 an hour for 360 hours.
So you can just you pull out your handy dandy calculator and just look up does that actually square
up
so this is one of the weirder ones.
They're saying that it should cost more than what they're actually telling you which is a little odd.
Usually it's the other way around right.
You usually get someone who tries to give you a lower price and then inside the message tries to raise
it.
Something happened here and they're clearly confused and that's something that I would immediately message
them with had they passed.
The other kind of criteria used to determine what a good bid is but this is a great example of a big
mismatch.
Something else is going on here.
So to give you an example of someone who got the bid rate correctly we can just go up with the person
that we ended up working with which was Nick and right here.
He answered every section or here says a hundred 400 300.
And then all adds up to 1800 was exactly what you'd expect.
You know 80 percent of the time or 97 percent 70 percent of the time people will have their estimates
add up correctly.
But 30 percent of the time something is wrong and they'll give you something completely different.
Sometimes they'll give you a bid amount and in their message will specify what it is but then they'll
say like they're not completely sure and the bottom will put proposal not specified.
Again you want someone who sure of what they're doing you don't want to have to spend time with every
single freelancer trying to get a more detailed estimate.
Now the second thing you want to look for is that once you start getting proposals you'll notice that
there's a general theme to the price ranges.
So and then there is a problem because a lot of times freelancers can see other people's bids and they
then will bid accordingly.
So the first person will bid you know high the next personal bid low.
And then typically all the other bids are going to come.
Usually within that range or very close to it.
But we can tell from this right here and even on the plants they'll calculate it for you.
For the most part the low bids are around 1900 and the high bids are around 35 hundred or 3000.
So you know example would be this guy was 1300 and give you example of a five thousand thirty one hundred.
This is a low.
This is another high one.
Hi again low.
OK.
So what we can tell is actually it's probably more on the 1800 to say 4000 range.
You want to look for things that are immediately not within your range.
Typically you want to give more scrutiny to both the person who bids the most which I believe was this
person they bid forty nine hundred and the one who bids the least in this case we had a lot of people
who tied for least amount with 5500.
You need to give those people more scrutiny because either they did something wrong in their estimation
or they are trying to artificially subsidize their price in some way to either appear as if they're
better or appear as if they are the obvious cheapest source that you can use so typically try to pay
attention to that.
In this case we don't actually have a great example of a really inappropriate bid.
But anybody who has posted a job posting probably does now an inappropriate bid might be someone who
bids $8000 or eight hundred dollars.
Now if you look at that estimate on it's by itself an $800 bid that might be fine.
You'd have to look at how they justify it.
But the fact that we've had 18 proposals and all of them are roughly within the same range and an eight
hundred bid is not even near any of that or an $8000 bid not near the range.
Really you kind of have to go with the group consensus the group consensus is that a realistic price
is going to be somewhere between 1500 4000.
Anything outside of that range is is probably incorrect or there's some shenanigans going on.
Now another thing that you can look for is what we call a timeline mismatch.
That's when you have someone who says we don't have a great example in this one but say they say I will
take me a month to complete and I cost $15 an hour.
OK.
Well if that's the case you take a month you're going to assume that they work 40 hours a week.
That's kind of the standard.
That means 160 hours is roughly what they're saying it should take in 160 hours times 15.
You should expect that it's going to take $2400.
Now if they bid something different than 2400 dollars that means that they think they're going to be
working part time or overtime or something is wrong with their proposal.
Either way it's something that's not immediately obvious and it's a issue of transparency.
So try if you can when they give you an estimate for time to sniff out whether or not their time estimate
matches their per hour and then be able to tell whether or not they're actually changing their price.
The last thing I think you should look at when looking at bid rates is see if their rate does not match
their area.
Now this is not an absolute statement.
This is a relative statement.
Now what do I mean by that.
Typically if you listen to the previous lectures or we talked about pricing and how that relates to
what area you're getting bids from.
There are certain areas that should be cheaper and there are certain areas that should be more expensive.
Now if you have an exception to this rule where you know we have a relative price range of 1300 to 4000.
Now if someone's outside of that range say they like more expensive then you probably expect them to
come from an area that's more expensive you would not expect that to come from an area that is cheaper.
So I'll give you an example.
So give you an example right here.
This person is from Vietnam.
Traditionally a cheaper country to hire from.
However their bid is above our range that we've established.
So either they're charging you extra or what's more realistic is that they clearly think this is more
complicated than what everybody else thinks that could mean that they just are not confident in their
ability to build it.
It could also mean that they're less efficient.
So if you have a relative range and there's a price that's above that you should expect higher prices
that come from higher priced areas and you should expect lower prices to come from cheaper areas.
If you see a mismatch something could be wrong.
This is a great example Vietnam giving me one of the highest bids I've ever received.
Now on the flip side I have someone who bid from the United Kingdom on the lower end of the range that
would be also an exception.
What I would suggest is you ask them look at their estimate and see whether or not it makes sense in
this case.
It did make sense because he explained that he actually has a full time job and he works on these after
his job so I'm not paying for full time rate.
I'm only paying for a part time rate if I'm ok with the fact that they're only dedicating four hours
a day to the project or three hours a day then I can get a significantly lower price.
There's also the implication that this person is more efficient at it.
They have more experience with the application and that means that it's going to take them less time.
OK.
So when you look at your bid rate try to keep in mind that there could be mismatches and try to spell
those out.
Try to look at the rate that they're publishing.
See if that matches that the bid they're putting also look to see if the time line plus the rate matches
the total price that they're putting.
And then last thing is try to establish a relative range in your group look at where most of the bids
are happening and then assume that is the rational range in this case.
We had 1500 to 4000 and then look for any bid that's outside of that if it's too low it's probably unrealistic
if it's too high it's probably unrealistic.
You should obviously message them and see what they say when confronted with that.
But keep that in mind that this is probably less likely to be a good candidate for building your project.
All right see the next lecture.